🚀 AI Automation using n8n – LinkedIn Post Generator

This project demonstrates how workflow automation and AI can be combined to build a real-world application using n8n.

The system generates professional LinkedIn posts based on a given topic by leveraging API-based workflows, webhooks, and AI models.

📌 Project Overview

The goal of this project is to understand and implement:

Workflow automation concepts

Webhook-based request–response systems

AI-powered content generation

Backend-to-frontend integration

The automation is triggered via an API call, processes the input using AI, and returns a generated LinkedIn post.

🧠 How It Works

A POST request is sent with a topic (e.g., AI in Healthcare).

The n8n Webhook triggers the workflow.

An AI model generates a LinkedIn-style post.

The workflow sends the response back as JSON.

The result can be tested via Thunder Client or integrated with a UI/backend.





🔧 Tech Stack

n8n – Workflow automation

Webhooks – API trigger mechanism

AI / LLM – Content generation

Thunder Client / Postman – API testing

HTML / JavaScript – Basic frontend UI

Node.js (optional) – Backend proxy for production use

📂 Workflow Architecture
Client / UI / Thunder Client
          ↓
       Webhook (n8n)
          ↓
     AI Processing Node
          ↓
   Respond to Webhook (JSON)

📥 Sample Request
{
  "topic": "AI in Healthcare"
}

📤 Sample Response
{
  "post": "🚀 AI is transforming healthcare by improving diagnostics, enabling predictive care, and enhancing patient outcomes..."
}

✅ Key Learnings

Understanding automation workflows

Working with webhooks and APIs

Handling real-world integration challenges

Learning how AI fits into backend automation

Difference between testing tools vs browser-based requests

🚀 Use Cases

AI content generation

Social media automation

Resume or email automation

Backend workflow orchestration

AI-powered assistants

🔮 Future Enhancements

Add scheduling (Cron-based automation)

Support multiple tones (professional, casual, storytelling)

Save generated posts to a database

Deploy frontend using Vercel/Netlify

Secure webhook with authentication

📖 Why n8n?

n8n is a powerful open-source automation tool that helps reduce backend complexity by visually connecting services, APIs, and logic. It is widely used for:

Automation

AI workflows

System integrations

Low-code backend solutions

👤 Author

Dikshant Kumar Singh
Computer Science Student | AI & Automation Enthusiast
